#### Introduction

In this project we explore the interoperability between [OMERO](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/omero/) and [ARC](https://nfdi4plants.github.io/nfdi4plants.knowledgebase/core-concepts/arc/) via RO-Crate. The project involves parsing an RO-Crate file from of an ARC and adding the necessary metadata(key-value pairs) with contextual metadata into OMERO as omero key-value pairs. Here we explore simple prototype/workflow to achieve this interoperability.

### Methodology

We first start with generating ro-crate metdata file in the json-ld format. This is usually created automatically in DataPLANT DATAHUB at the Deploy -> Package Registory -> isa_arc_json. The generated file i.e. arc-ro-crate-metadataOld.json was parsed with python's json package and read in omero webclient as key-value pair metadata using omero-py package. As there have been some changes in the ro-crate specification, here: [isa-ro-crate-profile](https://github.com/nfdi4plants/isa-ro-crate-profile/tree/release) , a new json-ld file named *arc-ro-crate-metadataNew.json* was generated by running in DataHUB at Build -> Jobs -> Create ARC JSON -> refesh button and parsed in python.


### Results and Limitations

Reading and extracting metdata from the json-ld file *arc-to-ro-crate-metdataNew.json* worked as expected when compared with isa.investigation.xlsx metadata and specific metadata for investigation was read/extracted and uploaded into omero as can be seen in the image file *OMERO_KV_pairs.png*. Reading/Extracting the contextual metadata and adding it as metadata namespaces in OMERO was also on of the goals which needs to be further explored.
The json-ld file *arc-to-ro-crate-metdataNew.json* was read using python with json library to extract the metadata. Except confusion regarding few keys like *Term Source Name* and *Investigation Publication Status Term Source REF* for investigation metadata, this worked as expected. The contextual information about the metatadata still need to be extracted and represented in omero webclient as key-value pairs with namespaces.

### Future Work

Future works involves parsing the *arc-to-ro-crate-metdataNew.json* file, both key-value metdata and contextual information and adding them to omero webclient metadata. The intented goal is to be able to add this ARC RO-crate json-ld parsing & omero upload mechanism as a ARC json-ld import feature to [omero-rdf](https://github.com/German-BioImaging/omero-rdf) plugin of OMERO. 

### Contributions

Disucssions and inputs from Henrick Lucas Weil, Kevin Schneider, Manual Feser
